README.rst, before:

View Manipulation for SQLAlchemy
================================

Adds `CreateTable` and `DropView` constructs to SQLAlchemy.


Usage
-----

Examples:

    >>> from sqlalchemy import Table, MetaData
    >>> from sqlalchemy.sql import text
    >>> from sqlalchemy_views import CreateView, DropView

    >>> view = Table('my_view', MetaData())
    >>> definition = text("SELECT * FROM my_table")
    >>> create_view = CreateView(view, definition)
    >>> print(str(create_view.compile()).strip())
    CREATE VIEW my_view AS SELECT * FROM my_table

    >>> create_view = CreateView(view, definition, or_replace=True)
    >>> print(str(create_view.compile()).strip())
    CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW my_view AS SELECT * FROM my_table

    >>> drop_view = DropView(view)
    >>> print(str(drop_view.compile()).strip())
    DROP VIEW my_view

    >>> drop_view = DropView(view, if_exists=True, cascade=True)
    >>> print(str(drop_view.compile()).strip())
    DROP VIEW IF EXISTS my_view CASCADE

Note that the SQLAlchemy ``Table`` object is used to represent
both tables and views. To introspect a view, create a ``Table``
with ``autoload=True``, and then use SQLAlchemy's
``get_view_definition`` method to generate the second
argument to ``CreateView``.


Installation
------------

``sqlalchemy-views`` is available on PyPI and can be installed via ``pip`` ::

    pip install sqlalchemy-views


Limitations
-----------

Various SQL dialects have developed custom
`CREATE VIEW` and `DROP VIEW` syntax.
This project aims to provide the core set of functionality
shared by most database engines.


Acknowledgements
----------------

Some design ideas taken from the
`SQLAlchemy Usage Recipe for views <https://bitbucket.org/zzzeek/sqlalchemy/wiki/UsageRecipes/Views>`_.

Package structure is based on
`python-project-template <https://github.com/seanfisk/python-project-template>`_.

Commit message:

Add Status section to README

README.rst, after:

View Manipulation for SQLAlchemy
================================

Adds `CreateTable` and `DropView` constructs to SQLAlchemy.

Status
------

Current version is 0.2.1. Although it was released in 2015, it's based on stable pieces of the SQLAlchemy API, so there has been no maintenance required so far to keep compatibility with new SQLAlchemy or python versions.

As of 2018, this package is still working with latest Python and SQLAlchemy.

Usage
-----

Examples:

    >>> from sqlalchemy import Table, MetaData
    >>> from sqlalchemy.sql import text
    >>> from sqlalchemy_views import CreateView, DropView

    >>> view = Table('my_view', MetaData())
    >>> definition = text("SELECT * FROM my_table")
    >>> create_view = CreateView(view, definition)
    >>> print(str(create_view.compile()).strip())
    CREATE VIEW my_view AS SELECT * FROM my_table

    >>> create_view = CreateView(view, definition, or_replace=True)
    >>> print(str(create_view.compile()).strip())
    CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW my_view AS SELECT * FROM my_table

    >>> drop_view = DropView(view)
    >>> print(str(drop_view.compile()).strip())
    DROP VIEW my_view

    >>> drop_view = DropView(view, if_exists=True, cascade=True)
    >>> print(str(drop_view.compile()).strip())
    DROP VIEW IF EXISTS my_view CASCADE

Note that the SQLAlchemy ``Table`` object is used to represent
both tables and views. To introspect a view, create a ``Table``
with ``autoload=True``, and then use SQLAlchemy's
``get_view_definition`` method to generate the second
argument to ``CreateView``.


Installation
------------

``sqlalchemy-views`` is available on PyPI and can be installed via ``pip`` ::

    pip install sqlalchemy-views


Limitations
-----------

Various SQL dialects have developed custom
`CREATE VIEW` and `DROP VIEW` syntax.
This project aims to provide the core set of functionality
shared by most database engines.


Acknowledgements
----------------

Some design ideas taken from the
`SQLAlchemy Usage Recipe for views <https://bitbucket.org/zzzeek/sqlalchemy/wiki/UsageRecipes/Views>`_.

Package structure is based on
`python-project-template <https://github.com/seanfisk/python-project-template>`_.
